# Lecture 1
*14/01/2019*
## Contemporary Multilevel Machines
### Levels of Abstraction:
*Logic* -> *Microarchitecture* -> *Instruction set* -> *Operating System* -> *Assembly Lang* -> *Problem-Oriened*

#### Microarchitecture Level
- 8-32 registers which are local memory
- *Regs* -> **ALU**(Arithmetic Logic Unit) (for basic calculations)
- A **data path** is the combination of the *ALU* and the *regs*. All data flows through here. 
- A microprogram controls these operations on some machines. (Is an interpreter for lvl2 instructions)

#### Instruction Set Level
- An instruction set is a detailed **manual** for the machine language
- Designed to reflect capabilities of underlying micro-architecture.

#### Operating System Level
- *Hybrid Level* (optional). More variation exists.
- Implements new instructions allowing for
    - Various memory organisations
    - Concurrent executions
    - UI's
    - And more (COMING SOON)

#### Fundamental differences: Level 3 and 4(OS)
- Level 3-1 are not typically used by programmers and are written by *Systems Programmers*.
- Application programmers write level 4+
- 2-3 are always interpreted while 4+ support compilation.
- 2-3 also tend to consist of long strings of numbers while 4+ contain human readable words

#### Assembly Language
- Allows programmers to user **human readable programs** to write programs for lower levels.

#### Problem-Oriened Language
- Used by app programmers to solve problems
- Examples are
    - C/C++
    - Java
    - etc

## Summary
Computers consist of many levels of abstraction which make complex calculations possible.

Everything started with the [Zeroth Gen](https://www.dw.com/en/19th-century-mechanical-computer-project-set-to-begin/a-6703016)

But now we have **quite a few** transistors in our computers. (4,800,000,000 +)