# Lecture 9
*22/10/2019*

## ALU 
### ALU Control unit
Checks:
- Checks if were doing a load/store F: *add*

- Branch F: *subtract*

- R-type F: depends on funct field

- Defines a number for every instruction (machine code)

- If a funct field is XXXXXX, it means it doesnt matter 

###  Critical Path
- THe most demanding instrucion

- In MIPS, a load instrucion is the critical path.
    - Instruction memory -> register file -> alu -> data memory -> register file

- We cant make the clock cycle less than the critical path period

- Pipelining can improve performance.

- We must set the clock period to accomodate all instrucions and hence the `lw` instrucion is the critical path

## Pipelining
- Overlapping execution (parallelism)

- Compartmentalise (split up) tasks into smaller tasks and use different parts of the processor in parallel.

### Stages
1. Fetching instrucion from memory 

2. Decode instrucion

3. Execute operation or calc address

4. Access memory operand (sometimes)

5. Write result to register

- The boundaries are matching in pipelined instrucions.

- Execution time of a single instrucion is increased in many cases when boundaries are lined up.

- However overall throughput is increased.

### ISA design
- All instrucions are 32 bits and hence take one clock cycle to process

- Can code + read registers in one step as register location is always the same due to the instrucion formats

- In step 3 and 4 the actual memory address can be calculated.

### Problems
- Sequential instrucions accessing memory or registers would have to halt for data to be written.

- Branching may be an issue if the following instrucions are already being processed

#### Structure Hazard
2 insturcions need to access same resource
#### Data hazard
Needs data from previous instrucion
