# Lecture 5
*25/9/2019*

## Procedure Calling
- How code modularisatoin is implemented

- The Following steps are performed:
    1. Place args in registers
    2. Transfer control to procedure (`jal`)
    3. Acquire storage
    4. Perform procedure's operations
    5. Results in caller reg (`v` regs)
    6. Return (`jr`)

### Procedure insturctions
- `jal L1`: Go into the procedure at `L1`. Sets the PC reg to the memory address at `L1`

- `jr $ra`: Jump register. Unconditional jump. Copies the `$ra` reg to the PC.

*`$ra` is given value from `jal`. No need to put anything in it`*

### Register Rules for procedures
- `$a0 - $a3`: Arg regs
- `$v0 $v1`: result regs
- `$t0 - $t9`: Temp regs. Values in the current *frame* will be lost when returned
- `$s0 - $s7`: Saved regs. **CANNOT** be overwritten by callee. Must be saved/ restored by callee. Send to stack and pop on return

## Memory
Layout:
- Text: code
- Static data:
    - Static vars, consts etc
    - `$gp`: Global pointer reg

## Stack
- *Last in first out*: **LIFO**
- `$sp`: stack pointer points to the most recently allocated address in the stack. They are stored contiguously in memory.

- MIPS stack is managed **manually**

- Instruction `sw rs, 0($sp)` can be used to save `rs to the stack`. `sw`: Save word

### Leaf procedure
- A procedure that doesnt call another procedure

- Does the job then returns

### Non-leaf procedures
- Procedures that call other procedures (including recursive calls)

- It returns  address and any args and temps needed after the call

- Restore from stack after call

- See notes for examples
