# Lecture 7
*10/02/2020*

## Computing Model
- The computing unit refers to a task, process activity and execution flow.

- HW features of the devices dictates the computing model requirements
    - EG: a general purpose computer will have a rich config of resources such as CPU, memory, etc

- Task can represent the process or thread
    - Contains info on data, stack, etc

- Model example for Matrix multiplication:

    ```
Cmm = Amk x Bkm
    ```

- Requires independent (possibly parallel) multiplication of each row

- Transpose B to make it the same shape as A.

- Then split into x amount of processes containing a certain range of rows to multiply.

- This is then fed into each core in parallel.

- This parallel computing model for matrix multiplication extensively speeds up execution time.

- What syscall? (not vfork as that cant lead to parallelism). Use clone as it allows processes to share data

- Splitting tasks into many sub tasks as above is the computing model favoured by linux

### Android
- Uses linux but has different computing model

- Android uses the Intent objects to decide upon execution flow

#### Intent Objects
- Can be defined as IPC (inter process communication)

- Explicit intents: not usually known to other apps. EG: app internal communication between processes etc

- Implicit intents: Other apps uses these intents to activate components in other apps

- Filters can advertise the capabilities of these components. Such as whether it can be invoked or not


### Tiny OS
- The context of a task is the register file and the content

- The model is that of split operation. Activate an event, wait for it to return and handle the data.
