---
creation date: 2022-03-08 14:08
---
#  Constraint Programming Lecture 15
8th March 2022

### MAC- Maintaining  Arc Consistency

## Value Ordering
### Minimum Bandwidth
- Bandwidth = largest distance between a var and any constraint neighbour.

### Max Degree
- The vars with highest degree first

### Max Cardinality
- Max Degree
- Then biggest neighbours already in order
- Then break by max degree

- All NP-Hard

### Smallest Degree First
- Min remaining values at each point

### Dom/Deg
- When dense, min domain.
- When sparse, min degree.
### Dom/WDeg
- weighted degree

## Value Ordering
- NP-Hard
- Store a value *k* that marks the quality.
- Find the value in the domain that has the fewest conflicts with existing values, use this to lead the solution in the wipeout stage.
### Min Conflicts
- for each current value, count the number of future values  
it has a conflict with. The one with the fewest conflicts  
may be most likely to lead to a solution

### Cruciality
for each current value, for each future variable, record the ratio  
of conflicts to the future domain size, and sum them.  
The lowest sum may be most likely to lead to a solution
### Promise
for each current value, for each future variable, count the  
number of values it is compatible with. Multiply the counts.  
The one with the highest product keeps the most combinations  
in the search tree, and so may be most likely to lead to a solution

## Search Heuristics
- Backtrack before trying next value in a search, allowing you to wipeout an entire domain for a search tree node.
